Hey guys welcome back.
So in the previous videos we've been using the static web server to actually handle all of the responses
but now what we want to do is we want to actually go into getting dot net involved so let's go ahead
and do that now.
And what we need to do in order for that to happen is we need to configure our route.
So what we need to do is add an argument so stop our web server and under the static files and this
is actually important because we want static files be read you want that to be processed first before
trying to process any sort of server side route that you might have.
So that way you're not trying to invoke.
You're not trying to look on the server for something that doesn't exist or doesn't need to be handled
is going to take a lambda function.
And so there's a shorthand function here and inside of here we're going to go in and say stop map route.
And this is where you actually define the routes re-application.
So we're going to say the name.
This is just the default route
and then we're going to give it a template to use and the template is actually how routes are matched
up and the application.
So the template is very important here so this is where you actually spell out OK.
When you make a request I want the controller to handle that and then I'm going to say the next thing
is going to be the action and then the last thing is going to be maybe the ID of something or the value
or something.
But that's typically the nice shorthand template syntax you normally see.
Also I have a.
Goodness gracious.
So that should have a semicolon on it.
So anyway what we have going on here is that this expects that okay for every request I'm going to have
a controller an action and an ID that needs to be passed in.
Now the reason why this process kind of sucks.
We'll see in just a moment here is that it does require that an I.D. parameter be passed in in order
for this route to be matched.
So one thing I want to touch upon is that Donek for and.
NET is still using MVC.
So NBC is the model view controller and I know this isn't actually spelled out in the correct order
model view controller but this is actually spelled out in the order of the request so when a request
comes into your application it's going to be handled by the controller.
The controller is going to be calling out.
It's going to be able to receive the request and it's going to be able to deliver the response it's
going to be using the pipeline in the middle where in everything that I described in the previous videos
it's going to call out two different services it's going to end up building a model that ends up getting
passed into the view and the view gets returned as a response assuming that there is a template that
you're trying to return as part of the view.
Now you could obviously have a controller in point that is just returning data so it can be returning
like SML or based on data or even just a string.
But the fact that the MVC pattern is followed and dotnet core Also we do have a bug here.
This is a typo.
This you do not need to have that extra curly brace on there.
I did not mean that so now that we've seen those three conventions with Model View and controller Let's
go ahead and create those folders in our application because we're going to need them.
So we're gonna create a folder called controllers and this should be upper case by convention.
We'll create another folder for our models and then another one for our views
and inside of our control let's go out and create our first controller so we're going to use the default
templating here we're going to say NBC controller it's going to be called empty.
We're going to say and now you might get an error message here and I'm just curious if we do.
But if all I want to use my I want to have the first controller named home controller and that is typically
the default first controller.
Now depending on your setup you may or may not have problems with this scaffolding.
Hopefully you don't.
And I was earlier.
So if I still am We're just going to do it manually.
But visual studio OK here we go.
So we do have some decent functionality there that is working.
That's cool.
So it created this home controller for us.
And in addition to that it didn't it doesn't return any sort of actual view here.
So let's go ahead and let's see if we can actually hit this home controller because I want to show you
that the way our routes are set up that we're going to end up having an issue.
So when we run the application you should be greeted with this message and I actually wanted to explain
this here what this is saying is that it's like hey we have some sort of middleware called use MVC but
we don't know how to handle this because you never registered this and configure services.
So any sort of custom middleware any sort of custom request response pipelining code you might have.
It has to be registered through this configure services and then configure services is actually passed
in here so it's registered one time and then used every time a request is made.
So let's go out and look at how we can actually tap into that.
So when we go let's go into this function here and what we want to go and we want to reference the services
object and we're going to say services and MVC and you can see there's this NBC option and then we need
to call it as a function and then we're going to say Let's set our compatibility version.
And since we're on Morone compatibility version Dadds we're on to one so we're going to say you know
we need to one in order for this application to work.
So now that we've registered this ad MVC we can now use MVC in our route.
So if we if we run the application it shouldn't blow up.
Now when we run
now you can see it doesn't blow up which is good if we go to our next HMO that should still be rendered
just fine.
There it is.
Hello from your mom.
Now if we go to the home controller This is where I want to show you I should be able to go to this
home controller and just be like you know Home Index by the fall to see if it gets returned but it doesn't.
So if I go to one though you can see oh I did this now got processed by the server and you could see
that Microsoft dot net core actually threw a error it says there is no index that matches this parameter.
Here there's no way that we can serve up a response to this.
So in order to fix that is because we hardcoded this idea in here.
So if you wanted to abide by this ID pattern here you need to go to the controller and we would have
to have a view that takes in a parameter an answer that let me stop my server and we would have to have
this say and ID.
OK so then we're in return.
And then what I want to do here I also want to add our view that needs to be returned so there's a shorthand
if we right click and say add view we can go over here and we're going to add our view I'm resisting
to say it's a template without a model.
We're not going to use a lay out page.
Let's go out and just say add and this is going to build scaffolding as well and really all it's doing
is it's just putting the home folder inside of your views and then it puts the index inside here so
we're going to say
hello from NBC.
I said Now if we run the app and we go to this page we should be able to navigate to it.
We're not doing anything with the parameter that's being passed in.
But it is a requirement in order for that route to be hit.
So again let's go to home and then we're just going to say and X and then we'll just have one.
So there we now get the response.
Now we don't have one on here you could see that index is not returned.
So why is that.
But if you have one is because the route has to match up perfectly in order for this to be rendered
if we want to fix that functionality we would go back into our startup file and we would say you know
what the ID parameter is something that I do not want to have.
I don't want it to be a requirement so I'm just going to say you know what I'm going to make that optionals
stop the server again and by using the questionmark the idea is now optional so it's not something that
has to be passed in and let's run the IP again.
And if we go to Home and X and without the I.D. you can now see that it does get passed.
And the reason why that works is because the action by default it's going to look for an action with
the name index and we already have one called.
And so that's why this is being returned.
Even when you don't have the optional I.D. and no clearly if you did pass any ID we would do some sort
of custom functionality inside of here.
But that is a demonstration on how we can get NBC doesn't get involved in our applications that.